the changes that we're discussing today and what we're focused on now is relate
and what we're focused on now is relate to project jump cannon so it's a future
to project jump cannon so it's a future protocol upgrade um these changes would
protocol upgrade um these changes would be included in it and project canon uh
be included in it and project canon uh is aims to bring smart contracts to
is aims to bring smart contracts to stellar we've actually modularized a lot
stellar we've actually modularized a lot of these changes and so there's a whole
of these changes and so there's a whole slew of caps that are related to jump
slew of caps that are related to jump cannon caps 46 through 53.
cannon caps 46 through 53. since this is a pretty technical
since this is a pretty technical discussion if you want to follow along i
discussion if you want to follow along i urge you to take a look at those caps if
urge you to take a look at those caps if you're interested in joining the
you're interested in joining the discussion i urge you to join the
discussion i urge you to join the stellar dev mailing list and if you want
stellar dev mailing list and if you want to also follow along with jump cannon
to also follow along with jump cannon development more generally
development more generally you can do so here
you can do so here in the jump cannon
in the jump cannon channel and also in the jump canon dev
channel and also in the jump canon dev channel um and so today again we're
channel um and so today again we're focused on on jump cannon related caps
focused on on jump cannon related caps there's a pretty uh there's there's a
there's a pretty uh there's there's a lot on the agenda a lot of small stuff
lot on the agenda a lot of small stuff but there may also be some bigger issues
but there may also be some bigger issues that we're talking about um if as you're
that we're talking about um if as you're listening if you have questions
listening if you have questions the best thing to do is to put them in
the best thing to do is to put them in live chat uh in text i'll do my best to
live chat uh in text i'll do my best to monitor it i mean the goal here is to
monitor it i mean the goal here is to actually have substantive discussion
actually have substantive discussion that moves forward some of these changes
that moves forward some of these changes and that answers questions and allows
and that answers questions and allows continued development so um we may or
continued development so um we may or may not have time to address the the
may not have time to address the the issues in live chat but if we don't do
issues in live chat but if we don't do it now during this meeting we'll
it now during this meeting we'll definitely take a look at that channel
definitely take a look at that channel afterwards too so feel free to put your
afterwards too so feel free to put your questions or thoughts there and that's
questions or thoughts there and that's the end of the intro um
the end of the intro um everybody here it looks like
everybody here it looks like looks like we got a full house um
looks like we got a full house um okay cool
okay cool so i guess to start off with we we have
so i guess to start off with we we have an agenda that has um
an agenda that has um like
like and i guess we can just like sort of
and i guess we can just like sort of start with what's at the top of the
start with what's at the top of the agenda
agenda i also know that there's some questions
i also know that there's some questions about uh interoperability that we may
about uh interoperability that we may want to address
want to address i think maybe we start with
i think maybe we start with 46
46 removal of box agenda item i i put a
removal of box agenda item i i put a bunch of i i put a bunch of agenda items
bunch of i i put a bunch of agenda items on here you can hear me
everyone hear me yeah we can hear you at least i can hear you yes okay
least i can hear you yes okay um yeah i put a bunch of agenda items on
um yeah i put a bunch of agenda items on here um but they're all really
here um but they're all really straightforward so i can just
straightforward so i can just grease them really quickly um
grease them really quickly um boxes in cat46 it's a it's an object
boxes in cat46 it's a it's an object that contains a value i think this is
that contains a value i think this is actually just an artifact of the notion
actually just an artifact of the notion that we might have had mutable objects
that we might have had mutable objects because uh i think as far as i can tell
because uh i think as far as i can tell it's it's basically indistinguishable as
it's it's basically indistinguishable as long as we have immutable objects and we
long as we have immutable objects and we haven't ratified pointers there's
haven't ratified pointers there's no way to differentiate an object that
no way to differentiate an object that contains a value from just the value
contains a value from just the value so lee suggested that we get rid of this
so lee suggested that we get rid of this and i'm happy to get rid of it until we
and i'm happy to get rid of it until we discover or some reason to bring it back
discover or some reason to bring it back in the future
go on once go on twice i guess i have a maybe a
go on twice i guess i have a maybe a question yep
question yep so is that does does that mean if if
so is that does does that mean if if later we decide to have mutable host
later we decide to have mutable host objects
objects they would just have to be boxed like
they would just have to be boxed like that that's right that's right that's it
that that's right that's right that's it we'll just bring back so it's actually
we'll just bring back so it's actually completely back i mean forward
completely back i mean forward compatible but yeah we're just bringing
compatible but yeah we're just bringing we're just bringing the object like back
we're just bringing the object like back in the future it's just that since we
in the future it's just that since we don't have any reason for it right now
don't have any reason for it right now then we might not delete it
then we might not delete it yeah makes sense
yeah makes sense okay
okay so
so yeah i just
yeah i just as a part of deleting this i want to get
as a part of deleting this i want to get rid of the cycle this gets rid of our
rid of the cycle this gets rid of our only cycle click reference in the
only cycle click reference in the structure when i get i want to get rid
structure when i get i want to get rid of the option on the box so we
of the option on the box so we definitely can bring this back later on
definitely can bring this back later on but if we do bring this later on
but if we do bring this later on we should put a little bit of effort
we should put a little bit of effort into making sure that the xdrpp the c
into making sure that the xdrpp the c plus xdlib
plus xdlib can do non-option cycling references
can do non-option cycling references which um there is already a plan for but
which um there is already a plan for but yeah just calling that out
yeah just calling that out yeah it's implemented in c plus plus 20
yeah it's implemented in c plus plus 20 so either
so either we can move stellar coordinates equals
we can move stellar coordinates equals plus 20 or we can back port it to c plus
plus 20 or we can back port it to c plus 17.
yeah that's a so somewhat bigger kettle of fish but um i mean we have a
of fish but um i mean we have a workaround anyway if we really really
workaround anyway if we really really need it we really need to bring it back
need it we really need to bring it back we can move to an optional box like this
we can move to an optional box like this but this there this is motivated by
but this there this is motivated by getting rid of
getting rid of so that'll actually make a lot of the on
so that'll actually make a lot of the on the wire stuff four bytes smaller
the wire stuff four bytes smaller okay second issue which is very very
okay second issue which is very very minor um we went with positive i-64 as
minor um we went with positive i-64 as the we renamed u-63 like two weeks ago
the we renamed u-63 like two weeks ago into positive i-64 to be a little bit
into positive i-64 to be a little bit clearer because 63 is a weird number and
clearer because 63 is a weird number and everyone who sees it is like what is
everyone who sees it is like what is what is that why should there be a
what is that why should there be a 63-bit number and it's actually just
63-bit number and it's actually just like a 64-bit number that happens to be
like a 64-bit number that happens to be positive and john pointed out that you
positive and john pointed out that you know zero is in there and depending on
know zero is in there and depending on which mathematical tradition you come
which mathematical tradition you come from zero is either both positive and
from zero is either both positive and negative or neither positive and
negative or neither positive and negative uh and some people believe
negative uh and some people believe non-negative is the correct word to use
non-negative is the correct word to use when you're including zero and a set of
when you're including zero and a set of numbers that include zero and all the
numbers that include zero and all the positive numbers
positive numbers i don't personally care i'm perfectly
i don't personally care i'm perfectly happy to have the word pause in there i
happy to have the word pause in there i think it's reasonably easy for people to
think it's reasonably easy for people to understand i could also put in non-neg
understand i could also put in non-neg or n n or something like that but i
or n n or something like that but i figure terminology wise i've got you all
figure terminology wise i've got you all here
here we're gonna we're basically gonna merge
we're gonna we're basically gonna merge this right now so please commit to a
this right now so please commit to a terminology does anyone have a
terminology does anyone have a preference
i think non-nag is confined if that's more accurate but i don't really care i
more accurate but i don't really care i personally i think u63 was fine but yeah
personally i think u63 was fine but yeah not like is fine too i did too i don't
not like is fine too i did too i don't care
care i like u63 personally it's short and it
i like u63 personally it's short and it says what it means
says what it means um
um literally everyone who sees it has like
literally everyone who sees it has like this weird sour note in their mind and
this weird sour note in their mind and is like why is that 63 what is wrong
is like why is that 63 what is wrong with you 63 is not a computer number 64
with you 63 is not a computer number 64 is a computer but that is that is
is a computer but that is that is actually the correct and that is
actually the correct and that is actually the correct reaction because it
actually the correct reaction because it is a weird type
is a weird type so like except except it projects it
so like except except it projects it projects to and from i-64 so so the the
projects to and from i-64 so so the the the type that you can convert to and
the type that you can convert to and from is i-64 actually
from is i-64 actually why i-64 is not u64
why i-64 is not u64 that's the symptom of the language we're
that's the symptom of the language we're using too like you know if we were
using too like you know if we were writing contracts in zig u63 would
writing contracts in zig u63 would actually make sense it'd actually be a
actually make sense it'd actually be a thing
thing i mean the thing is like i don't think
i mean the thing is like i don't think the weird reaction is to the name i
the weird reaction is to the name i think the weird reaction is to the
think the weird reaction is to the concept but then in context it makes
concept but then in context it makes sense so why not just pick the more
sense so why not just pick the more accurate name but
accurate name but this seems like a mega bike shed thing
this seems like a mega bike shed thing it is a megabyte shed um
it is a megabyte shed um i'll go back to u63 if everyone wants
i'll go back to u63 if everyone wants you 63 but i will not entertain another
you 63 but i will not entertain another comment on this after this meeting so
comment on this after this meeting so this is it yes thank you uh i mean it's
this is it yes thank you uh i mean it's like boolean right like boolean is not
like boolean right like boolean is not one bit in most like if you have a
one bit in most like if you have a variable like that right it's already
variable like that right it's already the same thing so i'm fine with i'm
the same thing so i'm fine with i'm actually i prefer u63 as well because it
actually i prefer u63 as well because it actually tells you what it is
actually tells you what it is everyone wants you 63 okay we're going
everyone wants you 63 okay we're going back to u63 um
back to u63 um next issue was cap 47 and cat 53 we
next issue was cap 47 and cat 53 we noticed part way through last week that
noticed part way through last week that um
um assuming that we want some kind of
assuming that we want some kind of mutability of contracts which apparently
mutability of contracts which apparently we kind of do or even if we don't want
we kind of do or even if we don't want mutability of contract we still want a
mutability of contract we still want a way to load contract uh from the middle
way to load contract uh from the middle of execution
of execution because we want to be able to call them
because we want to be able to call them um and so at a representation level uh
um and so at a representation level uh the xdr that represents ledger entries
the xdr that represents ledger entries with separate ledger entries for code
with separate ledger entries for code and data
and data seemed possibly to be overkill and so we
seemed possibly to be overkill and so we talked about it and came to the
talked about it and came to the conclusion that it would probably be
conclusion that it would probably be tidier we actually had like like in the
tidier we actually had like like in the implementation we had um pages and pages
implementation we had um pages and pages of sql code for both of these types and
of sql code for both of these types and they're pretty much identical uh cedric
they're pretty much identical uh cedric and i worked through this stuff and then
and i worked through this stuff and then they really only differ on a you know
they really only differ on a you know one field which is whether there's an
one field which is whether there's an additional sub key
additional sub key so we thought that it might be nice to
so we thought that it might be nice to just merge those two and there's a
just merge those two and there's a single type of contract related entry
single type of contract related entry that still has a contract id they all
that still has a contract id they all have a contract id
have a contract id and has a sub key and the sub key has
and has a sub key and the sub key has one magic value carved out we have lots
one magic value carved out we have lots of places to carve magic values and we
of places to carve magic values and we can just carve them out of the sc static
can just carve them out of the sc static value set and we just have a designated
value set and we just have a designated key and all it means is the current
key and all it means is the current contracts or the the owning contracts
contracts or the the owning contracts own wasm code and then we just do our
own wasm code and then we just do our binary and sc binary type
binary and sc binary type and so we implemented that it seems to
and so we implemented that it seems to work fine um i have not updated the cap
work fine um i have not updated the cap yet i want to run that by everyone make
yet i want to run that by everyone make sure everyone's okay with it it it leans
sure everyone's okay with it it it leans us a little bit towards mutable
us a little bit towards mutable contracts but i believe a lot of our
contracts but i believe a lot of our design discussion has been drifting in
design discussion has been drifting in that direction anyway it does not wet us
that direction anyway it does not wet us to that we do not have to we could also
to that we do not have to we could also special case it and just prohibit rights
special case it and just prohibit rights to that key
to that key but it sort of
but it sort of has that tendency of treating code and
has that tendency of treating code and data as the same thing
data as the same thing which at some level they are
which at some level they are so i i spoke to siddharth about this
so i i spoke to siddharth about this yesterday quite a bit in the afternoon
yesterday quite a bit in the afternoon but one of the one of my main concerns
but one of the one of my main concerns around
around mutable code and this is much more about
mutable code and this is much more about the mutable code aspect of it than about
the mutable code aspect of it than about the merging them the merging it i care
the merging them the merging it i care less
less about other than the fact that it like
about other than the fact that it like makes them like default mutable and we
makes them like default mutable and we now need to opt back out of that which
now need to opt back out of that which i'm about to explain
i'm about to explain like
like you can't just say the code is mutable
you can't just say the code is mutable without having some rules around what
without having some rules around what that means
that means and we have not successfully agreed on
and we have not successfully agreed on what those rules are
what those rules are what happens if you mutate a code
what happens if you mutate a code mutated contract that's currently
mutated contract that's currently running what happens if you delete a
running what happens if you delete a contract that's currently running
contract that's currently running what happens if you
what happens if you delete a contract that is running then
delete a contract that is running then call another contract that called back
call another contract that called back into the first contract which contract
into the first contract which contract runs the second time
runs the second time like
like these things need to be well defined
these things need to be well defined so we should like start from the fact
so we should like start from the fact that we can
that we can store code as data but you can't mutate
store code as data but you can't mutate it and then figure out how to mutate it
it and then figure out how to mutate it um but like we don't have answers to
um but like we don't have answers to those questions yet or at least i
those questions yet or at least i haven't heard answers to those kinds of
haven't heard answers to those kinds of questions yet
no i agree we don't we we did however uh have in cat 47 a function for writing
have in cat 47 a function for writing uh
uh a contract code entry so whatever that
a contract code entry so whatever that host function semantics are they're the
host function semantics are they're the same semantics here
same semantics here well the the thing is that uh yeah it's
well the the thing is that uh yeah it's like what john is saying like currently
like what john is saying like currently right like when you write a letter entry
right like when you write a letter entry the this is observable by anything after
the this is observable by anything after like immediately after whereas here i
like immediately after whereas here i think we we have to decide and we
think we we have to decide and we probably cannot make this actually uh
probably cannot make this actually uh this cannot be true i think
this cannot be true i think um because this is going to be
um because this is going to be probably scoped with the uh tied up to
probably scoped with the uh tied up to the lifetime of the
the lifetime of the um
um of the wasm runtime that's actually
of the wasm runtime that's actually executing the code so if you have like
executing the code so if you have like if you call yourself type of thing uh
if you call yourself type of thing uh we're certainly not going to we're not
we're certainly not going to we're not going to hot patch the the running one
going to hot patch the the running one exactly yeah so this is
exactly yeah so this is but this is like a place where this is
but this is like a place where this is actually deviating from what we do for
actually deviating from what we do for data
data so we have to really
so we have to really you know specify this and think about it
you know specify this and think about it very hard that's exactly what i was
very hard that's exactly what i was saying nico you just said yeah
saying nico you just said yeah no i know like it's it's kind of scary
no i know like it's it's kind of scary in a way that
in a way that i don't know what the right answer is on
i don't know what the right answer is on i
i know you see i don't i don't actually
know you see i don't i don't actually think this is this is particularly scary
think this is this is particularly scary i think there are really only two
i think there are really only two possible options and they're both fine
possible options and they're both fine um and you know one of them is you do
um and you know one of them is you do what unix does which is that you
what unix does which is that you um the executing process is essentially
um the executing process is essentially a disjoint as soon as it starts
a disjoint as soon as it starts executing and so if you rewrite the file
executing and so if you rewrite the file that's fine the next exec to that to
that's fine the next exec to that to that we'll get the new code
that we'll get the new code but like
but like so did we did we actually decide on
so did we did we actually decide on reentrancy for example like what you can
reentrancy for example like what you can or cannot do
or cannot do well actually you get you busy in unix
no you can write a file while it's running uh you get you get busy on
running uh you get you get busy on windows
windows the file's locked on windows while it's
the file's locked on windows while it's executing on unix you can rewrite the
executing on unix you can rewrite the file
file as far as i know
because i do upgrades of running programs all the time and it works
like if i if i upgrade chrome while it's running if i if i do apt-get install
running if i if i do apt-get install bash it works in my backup i'm telling
bash it works in my backup i'm telling you i literally just tested this um and
you i literally just tested this um and i get e busy um i mean this is kind of a
i get e busy um i mean this is kind of a side note but i think what you're doing
side note but i think what you're doing when you upgrade is you're unlinking the
when you upgrade is you're unlinking the file and creating a new file but you
file and creating a new file but you can't you can't like write to an inode
can't you can't like write to an inode that's currently executing okay sure
that's currently executing okay sure unlike you can re-link that's
unlike you can re-link that's fine well unlike and create a different
fine well unlike and create a different i know my point is it's it's totally
i know my point is it's it's totally doable in some contexts and in other
doable in some contexts and in other contexts you block it and those are the
contexts you block it and those are the only two options here so
only two options here so and i think they're both fine there are
and i think they're both fine there are other options okay there's the only two
other options okay there's the only two reasonable options the other one is what
reasonable options the other one is what hot patch your existing running program
hot patch your existing running program which you're not going to do no there's
which you're not going to do no there's at least one other option which is like
at least one other option which is like you can't update something while it's
you can't update something while it's running you have to delegate that's
running you have to delegate that's blocked that's what i just said that's
blocked that's what i just said that's the other option block or allow
the other option block or allow what what exactly do you mean by block i
what what exactly do you mean by block i guess it fails you try to make the right
guess it fails you try to make the right and the right fails it's just the
and the right fails it's just the special case we just don't know that's
special case we just don't know that's what right right right to the running
what right right right to the running the right to the running code fail
the right to the running code fail because we decided
because we decided but then how do you actually do the
but then how do you actually do the update i guess like you're just saying
update i guess like you're just saying you can't mutate it you can't take your
you can't mutate it you can't take your own you can you can mutate someone
own you can you can mutate someone else's
else's okay but like that needs a lot of
okay but like that needs a lot of specification in and of itself
specification in and of itself and i was providing an example of how
and i was providing an example of how you can do that you can't just like i
you can do that you can't just like i can't just modify your contract right
can't just modify your contract right like there's obvious that's obviously
like there's obvious that's obviously not acceptable
not acceptable um
um so
so but we have a we have a we have like
but we have a we have a we have like manage contract transactions right that
manage contract transactions right that that's that's the out-of-band technique
that's that's the out-of-band technique but like that doesn't work
but like that doesn't work like it works in a very like very tight
like it works in a very like very tight sense but like what if you're a dow
sense but like what if you're a dow that's managing a smart contract you'd
that's managing a smart contract you'd like to be able to manage it from small
like to be able to manage it from small right okay then we
right okay then we there's like a whole bunch of space here
there's like a whole bunch of space here that i'm like
that i'm like it's like sure maybe you have two
it's like sure maybe you have two high-level options allow or block but
high-level options allow or block but like block has many sub-options
okay i i i don't i don't see this is i don't see this is relating to the
i don't see this is relating to the question which is do we store this as a
question which is do we store this as a ledger entry or not i agree that
ledger entry or not i agree that individual host functions need to have
individual host functions need to have semantics defined for them but okay i
semantics defined for them but okay i guess what i'm getting at is
guess what i'm getting at is i would accept this change if we make it
i would accept this change if we make it so that you can't mutate the code while
so that you can't mutate the code while it's running right now
it's running right now um and we can figure it out later okay
um and we can figure it out later okay um but if you're going to allow it right
um but if you're going to allow it right now then we need to do a lot more work
now then we need to do a lot more work and it's not a good idea
sorry if we're if we allow rights to the currently running
allow rights to the currently running contract right we need to do more work
contract right we need to do more work okay um so
okay um so what i'm going to specify that agent
what i'm going to specify that agent files are currently immutable
files are currently immutable even if it's stored as data no the
even if it's stored as data no the currently running contract is immutable
currently running contract is immutable but we as i just said we have no
but we as i just said we have no mechanism to write to a not running
mechanism to write to a not running contract or not a good mechanism we
contract or not a good mechanism we should just make it immutable if it's
should just make it immutable if it's okay sure
okay sure like what i'm saying is let's separate
like what i'm saying is let's separate the mutability problem from the
the mutability problem from the representation problem okay
representation problem okay then we can make progress because like i
then we can make progress because like i i don't want to approve this if we don't
i don't want to approve this if we don't have like i don't want to prove it in
have like i don't want to prove it in the mutable case if we don't have a good
the mutable case if we don't have a good story about me to build and we don't
story about me to build and we don't right now gotcha okay so only only
right now gotcha okay so only only reading only the read path works for
reading only the read path works for this key right now and the right path
this key right now and the right path just fails
um i have a question about not about the mutability but the representation um if
mutability but the representation um if we're making it a ledger key that you
we're making it a ledger key that you have to write
have to write and in the future we do decide to
and in the future we do decide to support mutability
support mutability will it mean that the only way to update
will it mean that the only way to update the contract is to
the contract is to write the entire binary every time
write the entire binary every time or
or so like i'm just wondering about if
so like i'm just wondering about if somebody if we support mutability and
somebody if we support mutability and somebody wants to write a contract where
somebody wants to write a contract where they
they swap back and forth between multiple
swap back and forth between multiple implementations like rolling back or
implementations like rolling back or something like that
something like that and
just the cost of writing an entire contract which might
writing an entire contract which might be a couple of kilobytes
be a couple of kilobytes um versus
um versus store if this is just data storing this
store if this is just data storing this data
data um under you know just like regular data
um under you know just like regular data and then having a point into that data
does that make any sense yeah it gets into what we talked about a
yeah it gets into what we talked about a little bit uh in yet another one of the
little bit uh in yet another one of the threads this week which is like is there
threads this week which is like is there any kind of delegation mechanism
any kind of delegation mechanism um
i i think it's a little bit awkward because um
because um [Music]
[Music] well first of all we actually come up
well first of all we actually come up with a delegation mechanism that we can
with a delegation mechanism that we can all agree on which is
all agree on which is going to be
going to be weeks of conversation um but also you
weeks of conversation um but also you you wind up needing to pre-flight every
you wind up needing to pre-flight every single transaction in that case because
single transaction in that case because you need to resolve the
you need to resolve the current delegate well
current delegate well maybe you don't need to pre-flight them
maybe you don't need to pre-flight them if you can guess where the delegate is
if you can guess where the delegate is currently pointing but anyway
currently pointing but anyway i
i i feel like
it sounds like it increases the complexity of this and that's like i'm
complexity of this and that's like i'm not interested in increasing the
not interested in increasing the complexity i'm just curious if we're
complexity i'm just curious if we're just
just any sort of future
any sort of future limiting something we can do in the
limiting something we can do in the future
future i don't think so because again i think i
i don't think so because again i think i think
think um
um 47 already has a function called write
47 already has a function called write contract and it takes a binary like
contract and it takes a binary like that's that's the point here is to just
that's that's the point here is to just absorb the two representation questions
absorb the two representation questions not not necessarily to solve
not not necessarily to solve do we have
do we have proxy or delegation or whatever which
proxy or delegation or whatever which we might have but uh you know
we might have but uh you know when we had that conversation this week
when we had that conversation this week um
um john was really uh
john was really uh adamant about like let's let's ship
adamant about like let's let's ship without and see what happens and
without and see what happens and you know
you know i can i can live with that because we
i can i can live with that because we it's true like we could we could make
it's true like we could we could make the wrong
the wrong delegation mechanism and then we'd be
delegation mechanism and then we'd be stuck supporting it forever so
make sense
zoomed in focused on the representation question nobody has any real objections
okay i think it's really not contentious okay so the final thing i had on the
okay so the final thing i had on the agenda which is uh uh the footprint type
agenda which is uh uh the footprint type which is like even less contentious uh
which is like even less contentious uh i'll just be extending cat53 with a new
i'll just be extending cat53 with a new data type which is called footprint and
data type which is called footprint and it just contains two lists of ledger
it just contains two lists of ledger keys uh the only really possibly
keys uh the only really possibly contentious aspect of this i think is
contentious aspect of this i think is whether ledger keys full keys should be
whether ledger keys full keys should be there or whether they should be
there or whether they should be restricted to only contract data
restricted to only contract data values or
values or or value contract id pairs or something
or value contract id pairs or something like that something that is a little bit
like that something that is a little bit tighter than a ledger key but if we do
tighter than a ledger key but if we do that it means that we are essentially
that it means that we are essentially fixing
fixing the impossibility of interacting with
the impossibility of interacting with other ledger entries into the protocol
other ledger entries into the protocol uh going forward and i think the
uh going forward and i think the interoperability question
interoperability question still leaves that open so i was assuming
still leaves that open so i was assuming that they would be a full electric key
that they would be a full electric key at least that in conversation with john
at least that in conversation with john he again
he again fairly clearly suggested that he would
fairly clearly suggested that he would prefer to keep that door open and i'm
prefer to keep that door open and i'm happy to go with that so
happy to go with that so does anyone feel strongly
does anyone feel strongly what do you mean by footprint here you
what do you mean by footprint here you just mean the uh like
just mean the uh like sorry like the footprint is a term that
sorry like the footprint is a term that was introduced in cap uh
was introduced in cap uh oh the other one the data yeah it's what
oh the other one the data yeah it's what we have been calling up up until
we have been calling up up until recently the read write set um i
recently the read write set um i found that actually the paper that
found that actually the paper that introduces this concept of deterministic
introduces this concept of deterministic execution uses the word footprint and i
execution uses the word footprint and i think footprint is actually a great word
think footprint is actually a great word to use here so i've decided to start
to use here so i've decided to start using this one
using this one because otherwise you wind up with the
because otherwise you wind up with the read-only part of the read-write set and
read-only part of the read-write set and the read-write part of the read-write
the read-write part of the read-write set and honestly linguistically it's a
set and honestly linguistically it's a little bit clumsy
nobody cares about the footprint okay cool i'll just make it a lighter
cool i'll just make it a lighter keystone
that is the end of my agenda items i yield the floor to discussion of
yield the floor to discussion of interoperability or whatever else you
interoperability or whatever else you want to talk about
want to talk about thank you
john is this a discussion that that you want to kick off
want to kick off have questions
um are we switching now on onto like acid
are we switching now on onto like acid and drop stuff is that that where we are
and drop stuff is that that where we are yeah yeah yeah so i think that all we've
yeah yeah yeah so i think that all we've sort of gone through all of the existing
sort of gone through all of the existing stuff on the agenda and the only thing
stuff on the agenda and the only thing that was a big question mark was the
that was a big question mark was the asset interoperability stuff and i think
asset interoperability stuff and i think that that's where we are at this point
that that's where we are at this point yeah i mean i think the only real thing
yeah i mean i think the only real thing to talk about here which like
to talk about here which like we have not
we have not been able to come to agreement on is
been able to come to agreement on is just like what are even the requirements
just like what are even the requirements what are we trying to achieve
what are we trying to achieve me nico tomer lee talk about this prop
me nico tomer lee talk about this prop like this problem i don't know like
like this problem i don't know like three times a week right now
three times a week right now and i don't even think we're all talking
and i don't even think we're all talking about the same thing so i think we just
about the same thing so i think we just need to talk about
need to talk about our feelings
so anybody can take before from that
yeah i love talking about my feelings so i'll start um
i'll start um yeah so i think you know the basic
yeah so i think you know the basic requirement
requirement from asset interop in my opinion is so
from asset interop in my opinion is so let's um
let's um maybe it's worth thinking about like the
maybe it's worth thinking about like the full spectrum of of interop or about the
full spectrum of of interop or about the edges um and where we are in the middle
edges um and where we are in the middle so
so you know i think like on one
you know i think like on one extreme interop
extreme interop uh thing we just do nothing right uh and
uh thing we just do nothing right uh and this is uh you can look for example at
this is uh you can look for example at like aurora on on near which is you know
like aurora on on near which is you know a whole blockchain running inside of the
a whole blockchain running inside of the blockchain that has like no interrupt
blockchain that has like no interrupt whatsoever and if you want to interrupt
whatsoever and if you want to interrupt with the parent chain you need to go
with the parent chain you need to go through
through uh you know various bridging solutions
uh you know various bridging solutions so i think that's a very extreme
so i think that's a very extreme version which is no interop at all um
version which is no interop at all um and it basically means that we're not
and it basically means that we're not taking advantage of the existing stellar
taking advantage of the existing stellar ecosystem at all but it's extremely
ecosystem at all but it's extremely simple we just don't need to think about
simple we just don't need to think about legacy um interop at all
legacy um interop at all i think on the other extreme side of
i think on the other extreme side of interop you have full interop with every
interop you have full interop with every primitive
primitive on the current stellar network so you
on the current stellar network so you can do things like interrupt between
can do things like interrupt between smart contracts and amms and the order
smart contracts and amms and the order book and uh
book and uh sponsorships and and like the wide
sponsorships and and like the wide everything that stellar
everything that stellar proposes and that
proposes and that you know is great for like supporting
you know is great for like supporting legacy but it's also terrible because it
legacy but it's also terrible because it means that we're bringing a lot of the
means that we're bringing a lot of the um you know technical debt uh and the
um you know technical debt uh and the idiosyncrasies and in the classic
idiosyncrasies and in the classic protocol to the new world so
protocol to the new world so i think we need to find somewhere in
i think we need to find somewhere in between
between um and i would say that even though
um and i would say that even though there are a lot of disagreements in this
there are a lot of disagreements in this in this room i think the basic thing
in this room i think the basic thing that we agree on is that
that we agree on is that assets are the main point of
assets are the main point of interoperability like we're not trying
interoperability like we're not trying to bring the order books we're not
to bring the order books we're not trying to bring amms
trying to bring amms we just want to make sure that classic
we just want to make sure that classic assets will operate in um in smartland
assets will operate in um in smartland and
and um
um [Music]
[Music] you know basically like asset issuers
you know basically like asset issuers still have their
still have their uh infrastructure intact and and they
uh infrastructure intact and and they don't need to make changes
don't need to make changes and so we have
and so we have you know service providers like you know
you know service providers like you know fire blocks and bitcoin all these folks
fire blocks and bitcoin all these folks you know their services are still
you know their services are still you know viable in working even
you know viable in working even in this world without
in this world without without a change
does that make sense to people
oh maybe uh i'll i'll pick it up because yeah like with the without a
because yeah like with the without a change it's kind of uh like uh that's
change it's kind of uh like uh that's the part that's right that is kind of uh
the part that's right that is kind of uh reloaded i would say
reloaded i would say um like the uh
um like the uh like
like as soon as you as we say
as soon as you as we say there's basically like um
there's basically like um there are two parts to it right there is
there are two parts to it right there is the
the um do i expect
um do i expect on day one
on day one as soon as we have like uh
as soon as we have like uh smart cr smart contract capabilities
smart cr smart contract capabilities can i use
can i use any classic asset on the network kind of
any classic asset on the network kind of automatically right
automatically right or not
or not like using uh smart and that
like using uh smart and that to me
to me is like one version of that extreme
is like one version of that extreme inside this box that you described where
inside this box that you described where you know no change is needed um
you know no change is needed um and um
i'm i'm i'm we've been kind of trying to and john probably can expand on that but
and john probably can expand on that but like it it seems to me that
like it it seems to me that if we try to make it
if we try to make it that extreme
that extreme um
um we we are kind of uh
we we are kind of uh really over constraining
really over constraining what type of things you can do in smart
what type of things you can do in smart uh in terms of uh
uh in terms of uh those assets right because um
those assets right because um you expect those assets to be
you expect those assets to be represented by uh trust lines and and
represented by uh trust lines and and you have like all those things right
you have like all those things right that comes with that and you have like
that comes with that and you have like the semantics that are really
the semantics that are really um specific right to classic um
um specific right to classic um so that there is like that version i
so that there is like that version i think there is a
think there is a maybe a more
maybe a more nuanced you know version of this that is
nuanced you know version of this that is uh yeah like what
uh yeah like what um
um like what what do you mean when you say
like what what do you mean when you say like no change does it mean
like no change does it mean um
um that uh
that uh yeah you want to have people that issue
yeah you want to have people that issue tokens on stella
tokens on stella they want to make sure that uh
they want to make sure that uh they contin we don't break their
they contin we don't break their compliance story or whatever they they
compliance story or whatever they they have right in terms of like uh what they
have right in terms of like uh what they are
are what they sign up for basically with the
what they sign up for basically with the network right like we're expanding the
network right like we're expanding the the set of
the set of capabilities um
capabilities um and uh
and uh and this one is it sounds more to me
and this one is it sounds more to me like uh
like uh like there's like some room there where
like there's like some room there where you can say well maybe
you can say well maybe um
um maybe people need to like issue us in
maybe people need to like issue us in this context of classic assets need to
this context of classic assets need to uh have like a
uh have like a kind of
kind of opt into uh smart capabilities and maybe
opt into uh smart capabilities and maybe they have like a way to specify which
they have like a way to specify which subset of the capabilities they are
subset of the capabilities they are interested in and
interested in and when you do that
when you do that then you have like maybe a
then you have like maybe a a different um
a different um way to represent those assets uh kind of
way to represent those assets uh kind of like when we introduce claimable
like when we introduce claimable balances like claimable balances are
balances like claimable balances are actually a a good example of
actually a a good example of where we
where we kind of introduced this this way to kind
kind of introduced this this way to kind of go uh in a way like uh that was
of go uh in a way like uh that was actually breaking a little bit in terms
actually breaking a little bit in terms of compliance but at the same time
we try to be
for tokens that don't have a lot of restrictions
restrictions claimable balances are kind of uh can
claimable balances are kind of uh can flow uh freely right
flow uh freely right and to me like
and to me like trying to do a similar thing with smart
trying to do a similar thing with smart is probably um like a
is probably um like a would be probably a good middle ground
would be probably a good middle ground but for that it's an opt-in so that
but for that it's an opt-in so that means you don't get automatically like
means you don't get automatically like everybody you know every classic asset
everybody you know every classic asset kind of shows up on day one
yeah so i think cable balances are a really good
really good example
example um you know they're a fairly novel
um you know they're a fairly novel concept and for the most part aside from
concept and for the most part aside from um you know a small set of like super
um you know a small set of like super specific stellar wallets uh it we we
specific stellar wallets uh it we we haven't even seen um support for them
haven't even seen um support for them and with major service providers
and with major service providers um so it's worth you know when i'm when
um so it's worth you know when i'm when i'm talking about minimal change i think
i'm talking about minimal change i think it's worth
it's worth dividing this into the different
dividing this into the different stakeholders that we're talking about
stakeholders that we're talking about so
so um i think on one end you have
um i think on one end you have the more kind of like institutional
the more kind of like institutional cross-chain services things like
cross-chain services things like exchanges things like um you know things
exchanges things like um you know things like fire blocks and bitco things like
like fire blocks and bitco things like um
um you know even like circle as an issuer
you know even like circle as an issuer like these folks
like these folks um you know take the path of least
um you know take the path of least resistance it's been even difficult to
resistance it's been even difficult to get muxed accounts implemented with
get muxed accounts implemented with these folks so i would say that from
these folks so i would say that from their perspective
their perspective we
we uh like zero change is preferable
uh like zero change is preferable now
now for the actual touch points uh for these
for the actual touch points uh for these smart contracts obviously uh it's okay
smart contracts obviously uh it's okay to introduce change right like if a
to introduce change right like if a wallet wants to interact with uh with uh
wallet wants to interact with uh with uh some crypto primitive uh some smart
some crypto primitive uh some smart contract and then obviously they need to
contract and then obviously they need to introduce changes and it's okay you know
introduce changes and it's okay you know so uh you know on the wallet side itself
so uh you know on the wallet side itself and from a user perspective that's
and from a user perspective that's trying to use the smart side it's
trying to use the smart side it's definitely okay to introduce uh some uh
definitely okay to introduce uh some uh some changes uh and can i have actually
some changes uh and can i have actually have a question on exchanges like when
have a question on exchanges like when you say like exchanges don't need to
you say like exchanges don't need to make sure well like exchanges today
make sure well like exchanges today don't most many exchanges don't support
don't most many exchanges don't support any
any stellar assets other than lumen
stellar assets other than lumen so like why is that relevant in that
so like why is that relevant in that conversation uh it's relevant because of
conversation uh it's relevant because of usdc it's relevant because there is a
usdc it's relevant because there is a group of exchanges that support usdc and
group of exchanges that support usdc and don't right
don't right it's growing you know and it's growing
it's growing you know and it's growing but like over time do you i mean
but like over time do you i mean wouldn't you expect
wouldn't you expect people like if they are like any good
people like if they are like any good assets being issued on the
assets being issued on the smart side that they would be supported
smart side that they would be supported by those uh exchanges
so it's not like they are going to like a phone exchange it's a bit of a
a phone exchange it's a bit of a different story right they have existing
different story right they have existing things
they're not issuing tokens right they are it's more like they have a wallet in
are it's more like they have a wallet in classic and you want their water to
classic and you want their water to continue to work
continue to work right and i mean i think at some point
right and i mean i think at some point if they decide that smart assets are
if they decide that smart assets are interesting and they want to opt in to
interesting and they want to opt in to make the changes great but they they're
make the changes great but they they're probably not going to be the first
probably not going to be the first people to do it's probably going to take
people to do it's probably going to take them a while and it sounds like we just
them a while and it sounds like we just don't want to break them
don't want to break them yeah that's fine but like i don't think
yeah that's fine but like i don't think we we ne
we we ne none of the proposals so far are saying
none of the proposals so far are saying we would break classic wallets
we would break classic wallets um no but we are saying for example you
um no but we are saying for example you know if we're going to recommend issuing
know if we're going to recommend issuing on smart going forward then the issuer
on smart going forward then the issuer has like this tough decision
has like this tough decision where they need to make a decision
where they need to make a decision whether the issue
whether the issue on the old path which maybe is not
on the old path which maybe is not recommended anymore but is what the
recommended anymore but is what the exchanges actually know how to support
exchanges actually know how to support or issuing on the classic side
or issuing on the classic side and you know based on our previous
and you know based on our previous experience it's going to take
experience it's going to take you know a whole lot of time for service
you know a whole lot of time for service providers to start enabling something
providers to start enabling something new
i get that i'm just kind of uh a bit skeptical about
skeptical about like the uh
like the uh for exchanges in particular that
for exchanges in particular that they won't do like basically i think
they won't do like basically i think there are two types of exchanges the
there are two types of exchanges the exchanges that are going to be
exchanges that are going to be supporting whatever the latest set of
supporting whatever the latest set of functions i mean they are going to kind
functions i mean they are going to kind of keep up maybe like you know with some
of keep up maybe like you know with some delay but they are kind of keeping up
delay but they are kind of keeping up and then you have others that are very
and then you have others that are very conservative and going to be slow um
conservative and going to be slow um and i think that's why for example i
and i think that's why for example i think we don't have still uh
think we don't have still uh usdc on coinbase i think right stellar
usdc on coinbase i think right stellar usdc
usdc coinbase
coinbase according to foreign sources doesn't
according to foreign sources doesn't have any multi-chain assets right now
have any multi-chain assets right now because of um extensive technical and
because of um extensive technical and product debt uh that coinbase is a bit
product debt uh that coinbase is a bit of a special case
of a special case uh because they don't even support they
uh because they don't even support they don't support any like usd any non erc20
don't support any like usd any non erc20 usdc um but we do have
usdc um but we do have uh and like it's a
uh and like it's a it's a pickle it's difficult uh because
it's a pickle it's difficult uh because exchanges uh you know there's a bit of a
exchanges uh you know there's a bit of a chicken and egg that you know they want
chicken and egg that you know they want to see demand
to see demand um and then it's hard to create that
um and then it's hard to create that demand without um you know these assets
demand without um you know these assets supporting supported domain exchanges
supporting supported domain exchanges um
um but i think like the main thing i'm
but i think like the main thing i'm trying to together here is that like
trying to together here is that like it's hard to get exchanges to to do
it's hard to get exchanges to to do changes uh and the service providers as
changes uh and the service providers as well like folks like bitcoin fire blocks
well like folks like bitcoin fire blocks right and right now
right and right now is uh you know the way that you issue
is uh you know the way that you issue assets on stellar
assets on stellar um you know the actual distribution is
um you know the actual distribution is just regular payments right
just regular payments right so
so you know you can do it on all these
you know you can do it on all these platforms
platforms if you introduce a new way to do it then
if you introduce a new way to do it then you basically tell issuers you can't use
you basically tell issuers you can't use these service providers
i mean that's not really what you're telling them what you're telling them is
telling them what you're telling them is you can't use those service providers if
you can't use those service providers if you want to do it the new way
right so what you're suggesting is having like this
having like this uh like a split thing in the ecosystem
uh like a split thing in the ecosystem where you say hey you can issue an asset
where you say hey you can issue an asset in one of both ways
in one of both ways um
um this way will give you like you know
this way will give you like you know like a shorter path to exchanges and you
like a shorter path to exchanges and you can work with uh
can work with uh um you know various service providers
um you know various service providers um and the
um and the other path will give you
other path will give you will give you what john
i don't know what it'll give you it'll give you the power to do whatever you
give you the power to do whatever you want the question is what do you want
want the question is what do you want right
if they don't want those things you probably shouldn't do it right
yeah like like if you think of uh what we have
like if you think of uh what we have right now for the network right we are
right now for the network right we are kind of optimizing for payments
kind of optimizing for payments if the token that you're issuing is not
if the token that you're issuing is not meant to be used for
meant to be used for directly supporting payments
directly supporting payments then there's no reason to issue it
then there's no reason to issue it as a classic asset
like think of like you know nfts or all sorts of random things like that
sorts of random things like that yeah
so as i said like if you if you if you issue on classic then you have the
issue on classic then you have the entire breadth of like classic tooling
entire breadth of like classic tooling available at your disposal right now
available at your disposal right now like every wallet every exchange
like every wallet every exchange everything that supports on classic
everything that supports on classic um you have at your disposal it's so yes
um you have at your disposal it's so yes it's about payments but it's just about
it's about payments but it's just about like the ecosystem support
i think like payments are also just transfers so
like payments are also just transfers so i'm it's also not clear to me why why we
i'm it's also not clear to me why why we would even say that nfts don't care
would even say that nfts don't care about payments because people do care
about payments because people do care about transferring nfts
about transferring nfts yeah but we're not going to have
yeah but we're not going to have that is actually kind of broken if
that is actually kind of broken if you're modeling
you're modeling like that's kind of what we see today on
like that's kind of what we see today on the network right like the way your
the network right like the way your model nft is on the network is extremely
model nft is on the network is extremely poor the experience that you get
i guess one question is like do do we think that kind of the the
do do we think that kind of the the value of the smart contracts is going to
value of the smart contracts is going to come from people implementing new assets
come from people implementing new assets or do we think the value value's going
or do we think the value value's going to come from like taking high quality
to come from like taking high quality assets that are issued by people who are
assets that are issued by people who are you know
you know not
not uh you know that are that are not
uh you know that are that are not particularly
particularly uh you know experimental
uh you know experimental and then innovators are going to come
and then innovators are going to come and like make new use of those assets so
and like make new use of those assets so my
my suspicion is that maybe this the latter
suspicion is that maybe this the latter is is is better and so that that kind of
is is is better and so that that kind of it's more important to interoperate well
it's more important to interoperate well with existing assets that might be
with existing assets that might be issued
issued by somebody else and to be able to like
by somebody else and to be able to like program those assets than to be able to
program those assets than to be able to create some new ecosystem that's not
create some new ecosystem that's not that's more divorced from the existing
that's more divorced from the existing one
one so i think there are
so i think there are uh it's probably both david because
uh it's probably both david because you're gonna have yes you're gonna have
you're gonna have yes you're gonna have you know the the stable coins usdc and
you know the the stable coins usdc and such that are going to be used heavily
such that are going to be used heavily in these smart contracts but you also
in these smart contracts but you also are going to have things like governance
are going to have things like governance tokens uni style
tokens uni style tokens and dao style tokens
tokens and dao style tokens and these are going to be issued on
and these are going to be issued on the smart side
the smart side you know we might say hey you know what
you know we might say hey you know what we don't actually care about
we don't actually care about about these assets being
about these assets being transferable um as regular payment on
transferable um as regular payment on the classic side uh and maybe that helps
the classic side uh and maybe that helps with um
with um uh with implementation uh but we will
uh with implementation uh but we will see these assets but but i mean i guess
see these assets but but i mean i guess i mean put another way like when i talk
i mean put another way like when i talk to people who are using stellar right
to people who are using stellar right it's it's it's often kind of two things
it's it's it's often kind of two things that draw them stellar like sort of the
that draw them stellar like sort of the the perception of like high quality
the perception of like high quality assets and low transaction fees
assets and low transaction fees and so if like those are the strengths
and so if like those are the strengths then we want to kind of
then we want to kind of make sure that those strengths are uh
make sure that those strengths are uh we don't want to kind of like sacrifice
we don't want to kind of like sacrifice those strengths and create a completely
those strengths and create a completely new ecosystem right we want to be able
new ecosystem right we want to be able to kind of
to kind of maybe for higher transaction fees add
maybe for higher transaction fees add more flexibility but where like you can
more flexibility but where like you can still do things with like low
still do things with like low transaction fees and do things with like
transaction fees and do things with like existing legacy assets right like that
existing legacy assets right like that that seems to me like the
that seems to me like the the
the the thing that we want to optimize for
the thing that we want to optimize for of course it's going to be like whatever
of course it's going to be like whatever turn complete in general but but the
turn complete in general but but the thing we want to optimize for that's
thing we want to optimize for that's going to make this special is the
going to make this special is the ability to
ability to also leverage these high quality assets
also leverage these high quality assets and low transaction fees for people who
and low transaction fees for people who are just doing simple payments and
are just doing simple payments and that's not going to work for everything
that's not going to work for everything but
but um
um but there are probably a lot of cases
but there are probably a lot of cases where like you know
where like you know people are going to want to use usdc for
people are going to want to use usdc for example right and and maybe we don't
example right and and maybe we don't want to get circled to like write some
want to get circled to like write some whole new smart contract to implement
whole new smart contract to implement this we just want somehow
this we just want somehow like unilaterally people can write
like unilaterally people can write contracts that do things with usdc
yeah i think we're getting into a lot of speculation and somewhat like religious
speculation and somewhat like religious discussions here
discussions here john can you help us like fine tune
john can you help us like fine tune um like where where do things get hairy
um like where where do things get hairy in terms of interop and what kind of
in terms of interop and what kind of like
like uh you know decisions we can make to
uh you know decisions we can make to simplify that
i mean there's a couple axes of decisions
axes of decisions uh one axis is like wrapping verse not
uh one axis is like wrapping verse not wrapping
wrapping wrapping generally makes everything
wrapping generally makes everything easier implementation-wise like
easier implementation-wise like significantly so
significantly so um but like the ux might or might not be
um but like the ux might or might not be better
better that's up to your interpretation
that's up to your interpretation uh if you don't have a wrapping
uh if you don't have a wrapping interface so that's one axis
interface so that's one axis a second axis of is like
a second axis of is like should a
should a classic asset
classic asset when used from the smart perspective
when used from the smart perspective look exactly like a smart asset used
look exactly like a smart asset used from the smart perspective should they
from the smart perspective should they look identical
look identical should they behave identically
should they behave identically and the third main access is like should
and the third main access is like should you be able to take a smart asset and
you be able to take a smart asset and easily send it back to the
easily send it back to the classic side
classic side uh
that access is more speculative i think but those are kind of like the three
but those are kind of like the three angles that one might look at this
angles that one might look at this problem
one thing that uh is noticeable in other ecosystems is that there's definitely
ecosystems is that there's definitely the canonical way of doing assets right
the canonical way of doing assets right on on the ethereum ecosystem even though
on on the ethereum ecosystem even though you can write your own contract everyone
you can write your own contract everyone just uh
just uh you know copy paste the the or imports
you know copy paste the the or imports the
the the open zeppelin one
the open zeppelin one um you know solana has like the spl
um you know solana has like the spl um other ecosystems have like their
um other ecosystems have like their baked in contracts uh for uh for assets
baked in contracts uh for uh for assets like people don't
like people don't actually innovate all that much with
actually innovate all that much with assets
assets um and like i guess my question to you
um and like i guess my question to you is like can we make those like canonical
is like can we make those like canonical assets on stellar be the existing
assets on stellar be the existing assets
maybe i mean i think you'd be making a lot of
i mean i think you'd be making a lot of sacrifices to do so
sacrifices to do so are they sacrifices worth making making
are they sacrifices worth making making not to me
not to me what are the sacrifices
what are the sacrifices i mean i think the biggest sacrifice is
i mean i think the biggest sacrifice is just like do we really want to have
just like do we really want to have a 64-bit balance for everything
a 64-bit balance for everything um
um the next sacrifice is like
the next sacrifice is like do you want it to literally be exactly
do you want it to literally be exactly what exists today
what exists today or do you want to build on top of that
or do you want to build on top of that more because like you would need like to
more because like you would need like to do the stuff that's common
do the stuff that's common in
in you know d5 you would need an allowances
you know d5 you would need an allowances system on top of that anyway so it's not
system on top of that anyway so it's not what we have right now
what we have right now um
um we have all this compliance stuff baked
we have all this compliance stuff baked in it's pretty unwieldy for a variety of
in it's pretty unwieldy for a variety of reasons
reasons do we want to be married to that for the
do we want to be married to that for the rest of eternity i don't so
i guess what i'm getting at is you can shoehorn anything into anything
you can shoehorn anything into anything send you
i have a really strong opinion about the should you question but i do have uh
i participated briefly the last time around and i just want to do ads since
around and i just want to do ads since you're already doing requirements
you're already doing requirements gathering here a somewhat
gathering here a somewhat narrow version of of what feel like
narrow version of of what feel like the requirements i would want to add to
the requirements i would want to add to this question i don't actually have very
this question i don't actually have very strong opinions about the assets i do
strong opinions about the assets i do have fairly strong opinions about two
have fairly strong opinions about two minor points um and i think they i think
minor points um and i think they i think there's a wide variety of ways to
there's a wide variety of ways to achieve these but if we're writing
achieve these but if we're writing things down um if possible i would like
things down um if possible i would like to request that users not be in charge
to request that users not be in charge of non-management unless they really
of non-management unless they really really want to i think
really want to i think if we're in a situation where the user
if we're in a situation where the user has to figure out how to operate a
has to figure out how to operate a cryptography api safely and correctly
cryptography api safely and correctly themselves we're putting them in a very
themselves we're putting them in a very dangerous position and
dangerous position and whether we accomplish that by by
whether we accomplish that by by completely baking in a standardized path
completely baking in a standardized path or just having a very easy to delegate
or just having a very easy to delegate standardized path or
standardized path or even just
even just there's a host function that has very
there's a host function that has very simple signature that's fairly
simple signature that's fairly impossible to misuse i'm kind of okay
impossible to misuse i'm kind of okay with most of those approaches but
with most of those approaches but um cryptography apis become error-prone
um cryptography apis become error-prone really really quickly and i don't want
really really quickly and i don't want to surface a lot of that to users unless
to surface a lot of that to users unless they ask for it unless they're going out
they ask for it unless they're going out of their way to say i personally want to
of their way to say i personally want to do some some fancy cryptography for the
do some some fancy cryptography for the average person who's just creating an
average person who's just creating an asset i really want them to not be
asset i really want them to not be forced to copy paste and possibly get
forced to copy paste and possibly get wrong the use of a cryptography api
wrong the use of a cryptography api um
um that's requirement slash desire number
that's requirement slash desire number one and requirement desire number two is
one and requirement desire number two is um
um ideally if that code is gonna be in
ideally if that code is gonna be in every single contract and it's the only
every single contract and it's the only thing that differs from one contract to
thing that differs from one contract to another
another uh or or if it's if it's a if it's
uh or or if it's if it's a if it's standardized preamble in every single
standardized preamble in every single contract on every single path uh it
contract on every single path uh it would be nice just from a code size and
would be nice just from a code size and execution performance perspective to
execution performance perspective to factor it out as well so i'm just
factor it out as well so i'm just i know the authorization point is not
i know the authorization point is not the only part of interrupt but to me
the only part of interrupt but to me it's the only part that i actually care
it's the only part that i actually care about i do not care about the other
about i do not care about the other aspects
right so i think that what you just described i think is that's kind of what
described i think is that's kind of what is uh touched on in all this
is uh touched on in all this uh
uh yeah in cap 52
the authorization model though for for uh
uh for payments
for payments is uh
is uh and going back to that right is it is is
and going back to that right is it is is different it's different and that's why
different it's different and that's why they are like things done in a certain
they are like things done in a certain way in cap 52 but i do agree that
way in cap 52 but i do agree that i know as we try to figure out like the
i know as we try to figure out like the actual
actual interrupt story with classic it would be
interrupt story with classic it would be we can uh
we can uh avoid having i mean having like a
avoid having i mean having like a yeah like good
yeah like good solid um
solid um base implementation that people can just
base implementation that people can just you know import in their in their
you know import in their in their thing and then just works
thing and then just works mostly without
mostly without having to implement those things
having to implement those things and but like the the
and but like the the key part of that the absolute most
key part of that the absolute most important part of that from my
important part of that from my perspective is the authorization aspect
perspective is the authorization aspect of it
of it you want to if you want to allow or
you want to if you want to allow or require people to fiddle other parts it
require people to fiddle other parts it doesn't matter quite so much but
doesn't matter quite so much but and user writing your own authorization
and user writing your own authorization group is just a disaster
we have too many crickets can somebody make it
i don't like uh well i do have a question so returning to to what
question so returning to to what tomorrow
tomorrow sort of started this threat this
sort of started this threat this head where he started it which was
head where he started it which was just other networks have
just other networks have a canonical way like economical
a canonical way like economical representation of assets that people
representation of assets that people just use
just use his question was can you know the the
his question was can you know the the current or classic asset just be that
current or classic asset just be that canonical representation
canonical representation on says
on says you know
you know he's not a fan of that approach
he's not a fan of that approach the question is
is it worth trying to think about
other models that we could use for the canonical representation of an asset
canonical representation of an asset that we could discuss or is it premature
that we could discuss or is it premature to just to get into that right now
to just to get into that right now [Music]
[Music] i mean in a way you know you know like
i mean in a way you know you know like in cap 49 for example the the wrapped
in cap 49 for example the the wrapped asset is a canonical
asset is a canonical implementation
implementation you know of the classic asset
you know of the classic asset but it's actually something that is
but it's actually something that is modeled as
modeled as a smart asset uh so
a smart asset uh so so it's not like people would have to
so it's not like people would have to reinvent a bunch of things there you can
reinvent a bunch of things there you can actually standardize on exactly that
actually standardize on exactly that thing and that's actually what is
thing and that's actually what is interesting about this this approach is
interesting about this this approach is that you the way you do it is you
that you the way you do it is you actually
actually write a standard
write a standard you know like erc20 type of equivalent
you know like erc20 type of equivalent you design it
as a as uh thinking about the semantics as smart semantics first
as smart semantics first and then you you make it uh yeah
and then you you make it uh yeah interrupt with
interrupt with with classic assets and there's only one
with classic assets and there's only one way to do it but yeah you do have
way to do it but yeah you do have standardization happening in that world
i'm not so so getting back to that like i feel like i'm the only one talking
i feel like i'm the only one talking like it seems to me that the
like it seems to me that the standardization is not necessarily the
standardization is not necessarily the sticky point
sticky point because
because in all those uh proposals so far there
in all those uh proposals so far there is actually a standard
is actually a standard that includes classic assets
so what else is is
is missing
missing right
right got it
well are there other questions that people want to bring up now in the last
people want to bring up now in the last nine minutes that would help sort of
nine minutes that would help sort of move the conversation forward or should
move the conversation forward or should we just call it i mean we got through a
we just call it i mean we got through a lot today
i'll let people think for a minute
okay i think that's a wrap then um so thanks again everybody for joining
so thanks again everybody for joining the discussion uh anyone who's watching
the discussion uh anyone who's watching obviously we're going to post this you
obviously we're going to post this you know to archive it on youtube later so
know to archive it on youtube later so if you want to re re-watch this which i
if you want to re re-watch this which i mean who doesn't right i watch these
mean who doesn't right i watch these things six or seven times um you can
things six or seven times um you can watch them there on youtube and
watch them there on youtube and also if you want to participate in the
also if you want to participate in the discussion or you want to follow along
discussion or you want to follow along please make sure to read the caps please
please make sure to read the caps please join the um jump cannon channels here in
join the um jump cannon channels here in the stellar discord and also sign up for
the stellar discord and also sign up for the stellar dev mailing list where a lot
the stellar dev mailing list where a lot of these discussions will continue
of these discussions will continue asynchronously
asynchronously and we will see you back here next week
and we will see you back here next week for another open protocol meeting thanks
for another open protocol meeting thanks everybody